documentation: Add checkup API document (#95)
kiagnose/kiagnose: docs/checkup_api.md

# Checkup API

In order to use [kiagnose](https://github.com/kiagnose/kiagnose) for running a third party checkup, the checkup should
adhere to the following API.

## Deliverables
The checkup author shall provide:

> 1. A container image, which could run in a [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/) cluster.

Author: Done, except for:
> what is the process fail/success criteria? (=>the image must update the output in the cm under status.succeeded)

IMO this should be left for the checkup author to decide.

2. Documentation of the arguments the user could use to affect the checkup’s behavior.

> 3. Documentation of the checkup results and their meaning.

Reviewer: Please combine those to one.

Author: Done.

4. Manifest files of required Role and ClusterRole objects.

## Input
1. The checkup shall be configured using environment variables.
2. The checkup author is free to define environment variables.

> 3. The framework shall strip the ‘spec.param.’ prefix, and pass the rest of the key as environment variables in upper case.

Author: I've added more context and an example.

> 3. The framework shall strip the ‘spec.param.’ prefix, and pass the rest of the key as environment variables in upper case.

Author: The section was rephrased to give more context regarding the work kiagnose does.

| Key                          | Description                | Is Mandatory | Remarks                                                     |
|------------------------------|----------------------------|--------------|-------------------------------------------------------------|

> | `RESULT_CONFIGMAP_NAMESPACE` | Output ConfigMap Namespace | True         | Used by the underlying Pod need to write the checkup result |

Reviewer 2: I'm afraid I don't understand, where is this configured?

Author: I've moved this section above the custom parameters section.
Is it clearer now?

> | `RESULT_CONFIGMAP_NAME`      | Output ConfigMap name      | True         | Used by the underlying Pod need to write the checkup result |

Author: Done.

> **_Note:_** In order to discover the Namespace in which the checkup is running,

> > it is advisable to read the contents of the `/var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/namespace` file.

Author: I've added several other references to the K8s documentation.
I think they cover what this link covers as well.

## Output
1. The main checkup output shall be reported under the ‘data’ field of the result ConfigMap object.

> 2. The checkup is required to fill in the following fields:

Author: More context was added.

| Key                    | Description               | Remarks                                         |
|------------------------|---------------------------|-------------------------------------------------|

> | `status.succeeded`     | Is the checkup successful | "true"/"false"  As a string                     |

Reviewer 3: Except for the redundant capital `A`, it looks fine to me.
I am not familiar with a "boolean string".

> | `status.succeeded`     | Is the checkup successful | "true"/"false"  As a string                     |

Author: Changed the "A" to "a".

> | `status.failureReason` | Checkup failure reason    | `<empty string/input/setup/check>: <free text>` |

Reviewer 3: I think it is fine. We want to recommend a structure.

> | `status.failureReason` | Checkup failure reason    | `<empty string/input/setup/check>: <free text>` |

Reviewer: Then there should be a note about it, its not obvious from `input/setup/check`

> | `status.failureReason` | Checkup failure reason    | `<empty string/input/setup/check>: <free text>` |

Author: @ormergi Please note that there is free text at the end.
And as @EdDev said, these optional prefixes are helping the user to understand where the checkup had problems.

> 3. The checkup shall concatenate its results under the ‘data’ field of the result ConfigMap object, with ‘status.result.’ prefix.

Reviewer 2: is this status copied to the kiagnose configmap?

Author: Yes, all the data reported by the checkup is reflected to the user-supplied `ConfigMap` object.

# Checkup API

A checkup is a containerized application, which checks that a certain cluster functionality is working properly.
A checkup provided by a third party vendor should adhere to the API described in this document.

Kiagnose executes a checkup as a [Job](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job/) in a dedicated ephemeral [Namespace](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/namespaces/).
The ephemeral Namespace is deleted after the checkup had finished its execution (or timed-out).
The Namespace's name is of the following format `kiagnose-checkup-<random string>`.
> **_Note:_** In order to get the namespace in which the checkup runs: 
> from within a Pod - read the content of the following file:
> `/var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/namespace`
>
> Please refer to [Directly accessing the REST API](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/run-application/access-api-from-pod/#directly-accessing-the-rest-api) for more details.

> 1. Kiagnose creates the following objects for a checkup instance:

Author: Done.

>    - An ephemeral `Namespace`

Reviewer 2: I was thinking to do it instead but its not a must :)

   - A [ServiceAccount](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/)
   - An empty [ConfigMap](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/configmap/) object to store the checkup's results.
   - [Role](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/#role-and-clusterrole) and [RoleBinding](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/#rolebinding-and-clusterrolebinding) which grants write permissions of the `ConfigMap`.
   - [ClusterRoleBinding](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/#rolebinding-and-clusterrolebinding) objects to `ClusterRole` objects that were defined by the user. 
2. Kiagnose runs the checkup as a [Job](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job/), with a single-container [Pod](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/).
3. Kiagnose configures the checkup using [environment variables](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/inject-data-application/define-environment-variable-container/).

> 4. Kiagnose expects the checkup's results to be written to a specified `ConfigMap` object. 

Reviewer 2: we need to have apecific names to our 2 configmaps, in order to avoid confusion (user-supplied cm and result cm?). Then we should stick to these names throughout the README. 
Also, I would recommend to link to the `Output` section below.

Author: Done.

> A checkup is free to create arbitrary objects in its Namespace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A checkup is free to create arbitrary objects in the ephemeral Namespace.
```

Author: Done.

It is expected that the checkup will delete the objects it has created.

> **_Note:_** Please see the [Accessing the API from within a Pod](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/run-application/access-api-from-pod/#accessing-the-api-from-within-a-pod)
for more details about accessing the Kubernetes API from within a Pod.

## Input

> 1. The checkup should expect the following environment variables:

Reviewer 2: if we are not enumerating the input (which we are not exactly), then the enumeration needs a pretext.

suggestion:
```
## Input

### Pre-set inputs

The checkup should expect the following pre-set environment variables:
| Environment Variable Name    | Description                 | Remarks                                                      |
|------------------------------|-----------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------|
| `RESULT_CONFIGMAP_NAMESPACE` | Results ConfigMap Namespace | Used by the underlying Pod need to write the checkup results |
| `RESULT_CONFIGMAP_NAME`      | Results ConfigMap name      | Used by the underlying Pod need to write the checkup results |

### custom inputs
Excluding the names of the pre-set environment variables, the checkup author is free to define additional environment variables.
* The variables will be specified by the user on the user-supplied `ConfigMap`, under `data` field.
* The variables should be with following format: `spec.param.<parameter key>: <key value>`.

Kiagnose strips the `spec.param.` prefix, and passes the rest of the key as an environment variable in upper case.

For example:
...
```

Author: Thank you for the suggestion.
I've implemented most of it.

| Environment Variable Name    | Description                 | Remarks                                                      |
|------------------------------|-----------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------|
| `RESULT_CONFIGMAP_NAMESPACE` | Results ConfigMap Namespace | Used by the underlying Pod need to write the checkup results |
| `RESULT_CONFIGMAP_NAME`      | Results ConfigMap name      | Used by the underlying Pod need to write the checkup results |

2. Kiagnose enables passing custom parameters to a checkup by specifying them at the user-supplied `ConfigMap` data with the following format:
`spec.param.<parameter key>`.
3. Kiagnose strips the `spec.param.` prefix, and passes the rest of the key as an environment variable in upper case.
4. The checkup author is free to define additional environment variables (excluding the names of the pre-set environment variables).

For example:

The following parameter in the user-supplied `ConfigMap` object:
```yaml
spec.param.my_key: my value
```

Will be accessible to the checkup as the following environment variable:
```bash
MY_KEY="my value"
```

## Output

> 1. Kiagnose expects the checkup results to be reported under the `data` field of the result `ConfigMap` object.

Reviewer 2: I don't think that enumeration is needed at all in this section. we are not counting anything, I think a regular paragraph is better suited

Author: The numbering was removed.
